[theme music playing]
[loud boom]
-[girls cough]
-[birds squawking]
[Miss Hardbroom] Enid Nightshade.
Maud Spellbody. Mildred Hubble.
How fortunate that tonight
is parents' evening.
I shall be speaking
to all of your parents... personally.
Well, at least she didn't make us
clean this up.
-And clean this up!
-[girls gasp]
I'll just have to ask my dad to make
a bigger donation than usual now.
It won't make any difference.
My mum's already expecting it
to be terrible.
Well, my parents aren't,
and they're not rich either.
They can't just buy their way out
of a bad report.
Loving the new look, girls. [giggling]
You're year head, and you're giving
the closing address later.
They won't be upset
over one little mistake.
One? What about the time
I failed my flying test?
But that was my fault, really.
-The time I got you turned into a frog?
-I got me turned into a frog.
Now I've blown up the potions lab.
I mixed up my will of bat
with my eye of newt.
Every teacher's gonna have it in
for me tonight.
[sighs]
Even if they do, so what?
Your parents will get over it.
-You really don't know them.
-[Mr. Spellbody] Hello!
-Hello!
You've got the mirror
the wrong way round.
-I told you.
-You told me that way!
No, the other way! There.
Honestly, Maud, he's hopeless with magic.
I can't be brilliant at everything,
can I? Unlike my daughter.
[Mr. Spellbody cackles]
[Mrs. Spellbody]
We're all set for tonight!
Your mother can't wait
to see Cackle's again!
It's the first time she's been there
since she was a pupil.
-[Mr. Spellbody laughs]
-Oh, which reminds me...
I've cleared a space
for your Year One witching certificate!
Yeah, about that, Mum--
[Mrs. Spellbody] We can't wait to
find out what you've been getting up to.
-Bye!
Love you.
-Love you. Sending you a cake.
-Bye.
[Mr. Spellbody laughs]
I feel bad for Maud.
She'd never have been in trouble
if she hadn't made friends with me.
She'd never have had
any good times, either.
I should go and watch the door.
My mum will be the only one not arriving
by broomstick.
She's walking up the mountain?
Don't you think she's trying
a little too hard not to be a witch?
OK, I know I said she might have had
some secret witchy past,
but it doesn't make sense. I'd know.
Witches are very good
at hiding their magic, Millie.
My mum's not even good
at hiding my birthday presents.
Top of the wardrobe, every single year.
Better go and see if she's here.
[Enid] What's up, Maud?
[Maud sighs]
I can't do it to them.
I can't let my parents find out what
a boil and bubble I've made of everything.
Well, you'll have to,
unless you're going to use some
serious pirated magic to fix everything...
and that's not very you, is it?
[Maud sighs]
You don't approve of pirated magic.
But if I did...
[Enid] Forgetting powder.
[Maud] Forgetting powder?
When it works, it can get you out
of very sticky situations.
I was glad I had it when you caught me
copying out all of your homework.
-I don't remember that.
-Exactly.
Forgetting powder is very unpredictable.
Are you sure you want to do this?
[chattering]
She's here. My mother's here!
You sound surprised.
I'm not surprised. I never had any doubt.
Are you saying my mother's only interested
in Esmeralda's education?
No?
-No.
-Good.
-Well met, Mother.
-Well met, Ethel.
How delightful to be here.
-I saved you this.
-[gasps]
I'll pass, thank you.
Got to fit into the ceremonial robes
for Esmie's prize-giving, after all.
Shall we go, darling?
[Mildred] Miss Drill?
Miss Drill?
You haven't seen my mum, have you?
Oh, yes, she's over there speaking to...
to Mr. Nightshade.
[Mr. Nightshade]
My PA just booked us into a volcano cave.
They are the next big
witch holiday destination.
-Would you mind signing this for me?
-[Mr. Spellbody clears throat]
Caves are so expensive
during the school holidays, though.
We may have to stay at home this year.
What about you, Julie?
Um, well, I'm thinking of investing
in a mobile cave.
I mean, your familiars
can come with you,
so you don't have to pay
for a magic-friendly cattery or anything,
which is a bonus.
-Mum?
-Ooh. Mildred.
Didn't see you there. All right?
-[Enid] Hi, Dad!
-Enid. Your mum's stuck at the manicurist.
But don't worry, I'm pumped to defend you
of whatever you've done wrong this time.
We have to see Miss Hardbroom.
I feel an expensive night's coming on.
Right, who have we got first?
This way, is it?
What is keeping Maud?
[gasps] Yes!
Ah-ha! Flying certificate.
Frog transformation homework.
What else do I need to add, Midnight?
Um...
[groans]
Oh, let's just say...
everything I've done since I've got here.
[sighs] Every potion I mixed wrong.
Each daft thing I said in class.
Every test I didn't come top of.
[Midnight meows]
[clears throat, sighs]
When this powder you intake,
forget my every witch mistake.
[Midnight meows]
[maglet chiming]
From HB. "See me."
It hasn't worked, Midnight.
[Mrs. Spellbody] Oh, there she is.
-Hey!
-Hi, Mum, Dad.
-[Mr. Spellbody chuckles]
-Hey! This was my corridor, you know.
I mean, obviously it's changed
a lot since then.
It's... it's so modern now.
Oh! If I'd had the opportunities
that young witches have today,
I might have got a lot farther.
Can you tell how much your mother's
been looking forward to this?
-[both chuckle]
-Come here.
No biggie. All we have to do
is buy new potion lab equipment.
Miss Hardbroom thinks she's a big deal,
but she doesn't scare me.
-I'm out of here.
-Dad! [sighs]
The Spellbodys.
Enter.
What's the spell for ground opening up
below you, again?
Oh, you'll be all right.
[Maud sighs]
-The forgetting powder didn't work.
-What forgetting powder?
[sighs] Very funny... I don't think.
[thunder rumbles]
It was necessary to see you this evening,
not only as your daughter's
potions teacher...
but as deputy head.
This is because...
[thunder rumbling]
Strange, I... I...
can't remember why it was necessary.
I can't think of a time when
she's been on the losing side.
She really is an exemplary sports witch.
But right now, I can't recall.
Not one occasion did I have
to correct her chanting
or remark on her tempo.
She has been note-perfect all term.
A flawless understanding
of animal physiognomy.
I only wish the other girls
were more like Maud.
So... Maud must be doing very well.
Very well indeed?
So if we survive HB,
we have spell science next...
then flying, then advanced chanting.
I thought advanced chanting was Year Two.
It is. But how would you know that?
Millie! Excuse us one moment.
It's like a dream.
The teachers didn't even mention
the flying test, the frog...
not even the explosion.
Sorry, what are you talking about?
I got hold of some forgetting powder
to make everyone forget my mistakes.
Please don't get mad. It worked.
It really, really worked.
OK, but I don't know
why you're telling me this.
I can't remember you ever speaking
to me before.
You can't remember?
I'm pleased you're having
a good parents' evening.
Mildred Hubble.
She's forgotten me.
Of course she has.
What does everyone think
my biggest mistake at Cackle's is?
Making friends with Mildred Hubble.
Week four:
transformed fellow pupil into pig.
Week five: embarrassed entire school
in front of the Great Wizard...
in several ways.
-Week six--
-I'm sorry.
This is all very well,
but I don't really see that it's relevant.
Miss Hubble, as an... ordinary person,
I realize you are not acquainted
with the Witches' Code.
-However--
-Oh, section two, sub-section C, perhaps.
The bit about senior witches
having a duty of care for junior witches.
It doesn't sound as though
that's what's happened here.
We are talking about
a complete lack of magical control.
You see, the way I read it,
the code is mainly about
not deliberately harming others,
using magic for personal gain
or publicly exposing other witches.
So which rule has Mildred actually broken?
Right, well, if there's nothing else,
I think we have other appointments
to get to.
Mum, since when did you know
about the Witches' Code?
Sorry. I like to be invisible
on parents' evening...
keep a discreet eye on things, you know.
I'll take it from here.
I realize Miss Hardbroom
can be a little brusque.
You could say that.
However, I'm forced to admit
that she may have a point.
Sorry?
I have been in two minds about this,
but blowing up the potion lab today
was the final straw.
I also feel that Mildred Hubble
has not really found her feet.
Perhaps, if she had a friend
to guide her...
[Julie] Well, she's got Enid.
...the right kind of friend,
a steadying influence,
things might be different, but she hasn't
connected with anyone like that.
I'm afraid everything she's touched
has turned to disaster.
-Now, I've been through this once.
-No, Mum.
She's right.
I don't belong here.
Sorry, Dad.
Second-worst witch.
Wait till I tell your mother.
Enid! It's terrible!
Mildred's forgotten that we're friends.
You're telling me this why?
Don't say you've forgotten, too.
This is a little bit weird, so...
You gave me
some pirated forgetting powder
so that I'd have
a perfect parents' evening.
Sounds like something I'd do.
Look.
[Enid] My handwriting.
How do I reverse the magic?
I don't know.
I'm not losing my best friend.
You're going to help.
I'll get you a magic tutor.
We'll apply to a different academy.
-Why didn't you tell me you were a witch?
-What makes you think I'm a witch?
I heard you with the other parents,
and only witches know the Witches' Code.
All this time, you've been hiding it
from me. Why?
Mildred.
If I'd had the same start in life
as the rest of the girls,
maybe I wouldn't be leaving.
[door opens]
[sighs]
[Maud and Enid] Millie!
I don't have time
for this nonsense right now.
I need to have one last look around
before I go forever.
-[Maud] What?
-[Enid] Forever?
Miss Cackle said it herself,
I don't fit in,
and I don't have a role model,
and she's right.
What does she mean? You have me.
A positive role model, Enid. [sniffles]
[Maud] Oh. Oh, no, this is all my fault!
How can it be? I hardly know you.
But you do. We're best friends.
[chuckles]
The girl who's never made a mistake,
best friends with the worst witch?
Tell her.
I may have given her a forgetting powder.
The explosion at lunchtime,
we were all there.
No, that was just me and Enid. [sniffles]
OK. How did you get to Cackle's
in the first place?
Well, I...
[sighs] I'm blanking on it at the moment.
I crash-landed onto your balcony.
How can you not even remember that?
What does it matter how I arrived anyway?
I'm not a pupil here anymore.
There's only one thing for it.
-I've got to tell the truth.
-That'll get you thrown out.
I don't care what happens to me
if it saves Mildred.
It will also get me thrown out.
I'd be banned from
every witching academy in the land.
Every witching academy?
You didn't tell me it was that big
of an offense.
There's got to be some other way.
Yes, Ethel continues to perform
impressively in every subject.
What about extracurricular activities,
Miss Cackle?
You must tell Mother about those.
[Miss Cackle] Oh, yes.
Ethel takes part
in many out-of-hours activities:
invisible netball,
instrument-less orchestra,
hat-making club.
In fact,
she's the only member of that one.
Get back to your room, Sybil.
That...
That is wonderful news.
Mother, why are you talking
to my little sister,
my little sister who's at home?
Don't fret about it, darling.
Now, who are we seeing next?
Miss Bat, is it?
You're not here, are you, Mother?
Of course I'm here.
We're looking at each other, aren't we?
OK, no, I'm not here.
A projection spell, Mother!
How could you?
You couldn't even be bothered
making the trip.
Oh, come now, darling.
I will be here next month.
For Esmeralda's prize-giving,
we know that.
You wouldn't miss Esmeralda's night
for the world.
-Maud Spellbody, do you mind?
-What do you want, Miss Perfect?
I suppose your mother's
super proud of you.
Thank you, Miss Cackle.
What is the meaning of bursting in?
Miss Cackle, I heard
that Mildred Hubble's leaving.
Sadly, she has chosen that path.
I'd like to volunteer to help her.
You, help Mildred Hubble?
To keep her on the straight and narrow.
I'm just what she needs.
Well, thank you for that kind offer.
It's no less than I'd expect from you.
However, I can't remember ever seeing
the two of you together.
I can't imagine how you'd get on.
Well, we'd make great friends, honestly!
We wouldn't want to mar
your impressive academic record
with Mildred Hubble's penchant
for disaster, would we?
Mildred Hubble has quit?
-It didn't work.
-Mildred's still leaving?
It's obvious what you do.
The same thing I did when I had
forgetting-powder accidents at school.
Dad!
[Mr. Nightshade] Raid the first-aid
cupboard for remembering powder.
[Maud] This is our last chance
to save Millie. Come on!
[Mr. Rowan Webb humming]
[fly buzzes]
Mmm! That's what I love about this school.
The snacks!
[Mr. Rowan Webb belches]
-I will never get used to that.
-[door opens]
Quick, like your dad said,
first-aid cupboard.
-[clattering]
-Quietly!
-[glass shattering]
Go, go, go!
[Enid] It's only a tiny bit.
Just enough for one go.
[Maud sighs, clears throat]
To this powder, all will surrender--
-Can you make my mum remember?
-Millie, no!
Mildred! I've looked everywhere for ya.
Oh. I remember where the car keys are.
I remember the code for the alarm.
[gasps]
I remember where I put those fishcakes.
-The car boot's gonna stink a bit.
-But what about being a witch?
Oh, I've told you, Mildred,
I'm not a witch.
But the chat with the other parents,
the Witches' Code.
Yeah.
As for the small talk, well, I just wanted
to fit in with the other parents.
And the code... Well, this school
might be different in lots of ways,
but it's the same as all the others
with all the stuff it sends to parents.
Diary dates, school uniform list,
dinner menus
and the Witches' Code.
You're always telling me
to be proud of who I am,
not to pretend to be someone
that I'm not.
Yes, I know. I'm sorry.
I just didn't want to embarrass you.
I didn't want to be the worst mum.
[Mr. Nightshade] I'm not seeing smiles.
[sighs] I blew it. Well, she blew it.
You realize that this girl is responsible
for your daughter leaving the school,
all because she didn't want
to disappoint her parents.
[Maud] I know.
I have to admit to what I've done...
whatever the consequences.
That won't make people remember.
They'll know you used forgetting power,
but the memories won't come back.
Then how do I get them to remember?
Don't worry, Maud, we all make mistakes.
No one's made a mistake as big as this.
Hey, I've made plenty bigger.
That's it!
The mistakes you've made, Maud,
they're just not big enough.
They're not?
Surely if you were to do something
truly disastrous,
then no one will be able to forget it.
Even with forgetting powder.
It would break the spell.
But how am I going to make
a huge mistake
that everyone knows about
before the end of the day?
[gasps]
Whether it's been good or bad,
I'm sure we will all be working
to improve our performance next term.
Maud, where did you go?
I'm really sorry for what's about
to happen, Mum, Dad.
All that's left now is for me to hand over
to our wonderful year head,
-Maud Spellbody.
-[applause]
-[microphone feedback]
-[clears throat] Uh... well met.
Um, to start, I'd like to...
thank a few people.
But I can't do that
because I do not deserve to be up here.
I messed up.
I used forgetting powder on all of you
to make sure I got good reports tonight.
Yes! Year head is mine.
And I did get them... but I lost a friend.
And now, I need you to remember.
I need all of you to remember
that Mildred Hubble and I are friends
and that is not a mistake.
This, on the other hand, is a mistake.
What's she doing?
-A very, very big...
-Oh, no!
[Maud] ...mistake.
Oh, no!
Tell me that's not the potion
we mixed at lunchtime.
It's the potion we mixed at lunchtime.
[cat meows]
[boom]
[bats screech]
[coughing]
Did it work?
Did it... did it lift the spell?
[softly] Maud Spellbody...
Miss Cackle's office, now!
And Mildred Hubble and Enid Nightshade,
always in it together.
You remember!
-[girls chuckle]
-It worked!
Failed flying tests,
accidental frog transformations,
-blown-up potions labs, and now--
-Could I check?
My daughter is the second-worst witch
again, isn't she?
She won't be a witch at all!
After today's outrage,
they should all be thrown out.
I find it hard to disagree.
Your money won't help this time,
Mr. Nightshade.
Did you not hear me, Mr. Spellbody?
Ah...
The thing is, Miss Hardbroom,
I don't have that much spare cash,
so I wasn't actually offering.
Though this may not all delight,
you lot, forget about tonight.
Why are you all still here?
Oh. Did I offer you tea?
[chuckling]
-[Mildred] Yay!
-[Mr. Spellbody] Yes!
[cackling]
I always carry some with me. You never
know when you're going to need it.
Dad, you fixed everything.
[Mr. Spellbody] I rather think I did.
Anyone want an autograph? [titters]
-I'm staying.
-We're all staying.
Sorry, Mum.
I would never hide anything from you.
Well, maybe your birthday presents.
You still don't know
where they're kept, do you?
Mum, if my magic doesn't come from you,
where does it come from?
Well, I'm sure you'll work that out
for yourself someday.
Till then, you've just got to believe
that you are good enough to be here.
And so do you, Mum.
The best mum.
I know you've seen a different side
of me this evening.
[Mr. Spellbody] Yes, we have.
And we are more proud of you than ever.
Standing up in front of everyone
to admit what you'd done?
That takes real guts, Maud.
But aren't you massively disappointed
in me?
What about all the stupid mistakes
I've made since I've come here?
Maud, why do you think
I carry that powder?
[Mr. Spellbody laughs]
Mistakes are how you learn.
Mistakes are a sign that you tried.
And you never stop trying.
That's what makes you you.
[chuckles]
Hey, you know what this calls for,
don't you?
-A family shot for the wall!
-Shot for the wall!
-[Maud] Cool!
-[camera shutter clicks]
[theme music playing]